---
title: openSUSE 2025 talk
date: 2025-06-10T12:00:00+00:00
author: Oubiti
layout: post
comments: true
desc: Quality on Autopilot. Scaling Testing in Uyuni
permalink: /opensusecon-2025/
icon: /static/assets/img/blog/opensusecon2025.png
keywords: "selenium,testing,automation,conference,ai,test,observability,seleniumconf"
categories:
  - Life
tags:
  - Test
  - Automation
  - Conference
---


Hello everyone!

The [**openSUSE Conference 2025**](https://events.opensuse.org/conferences/oSC25) will happen very soon, and although I'm going to participate remotely this year from the coast of Cambrils, I'm incredibly happy to have been able to contribute with my pre-recorded talk: [**"Quality on Autopilot: Scaling Testing in Uyuni"**](https://events.opensuse.org/conferences/oSC25/program/proposals/4975).

It's a fantastic opportunity to share the journey we've undertaken at SUSE to scale quality in an open-source project as dynamic and complex as [Uyuni](https://www.uyuni-project.org/). The question I tried to answer is: *How do you scale quality in a fast-moving open-source project?*
<br><br>

### What is the Talk About? A Recap of Our Journey

For those who can't attend, the talk is a tour through our adoption of **TestOps** practices to bring more automation, visibility, and resilience into our Quality Engineering processes. This wasn't an overnight change, but a story of small, iterative improvements.

Here are the pillars of our strategy that I discussed in the presentation:

* **🏗️ Solid Foundations with IaC:** We started by automating our infrastructure with **Terraform and Salt**. This gave us the ability to create consistent, on-demand test environments, eliminating the classic "it works on my machine" problem.

* **📊 Visibility with Observability:** We integrated **Prometheus and Grafana** to monitor our test trends. This allows us to analyze historical data to detect regressions, identify flaky tests, and understand the behavior of our tests over time.

* **🏷️ Managing Flaky Tests and Known Issues:** We created a custom system that connects our QE workflow in **GitHub** directly with our test reports. Using a script, we automatically tag Cucumber scenarios, providing immediate visibility into the status of a failed test (if it's flaky, if a bug has already been reported, etc.).

* **⚡ Accelerating Feedback with Smart Test Selection:** For Pull Requests, we implemented smart test selection based on **code coverage**. This allows us to run only the relevant end-to-end tests for the affected components, drastically reducing CI times.

* **🩺 Continuous Synthetic Monitoring:** We introduced "Fitness Functions" into our daily pipelines. These are key product metrics (like bootstrap or synchronization times) that give us a continuous view of the system's overall health and provide early warnings about product-level issues.

* **💻 Improving the Developer Experience:** We designed our own **DevContainers** to standardize the development environment in IDEs. This has greatly simplified the onboarding process and aligned the entire team.

* **🤝 Transparency with the Community:** We are working on making our AWS test reports public. We believe transparency is key in open-source to build trust and accountability.
  <br><br>

### More Updates Coming Soon!

This post is just the beginning. In the coming days, I plan to write a bit more detail on some of these topics and, most importantly, share a **summary of what I've learned from other incredible talks** that I'll be able to follow at the openSUSE Conference 2025.

Also, as soon as the organizers upload the videos to YouTube, I will embed the full recording of my talk right here for you to watch.

<br><br>

### My presentation

<iframe src="https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/embed.aspx?src=http://oubiti.com/static/assets/img/blog/Quality_on_Autopilot_Scaling_Testing_in_Uyuni.pptx" width="100%" height="800px" frameborder="0"></iframe>

